President Jahanian,
members of the Board of Trustees,
faculty, distinguished guests, proud
parents and families,
and above all, the Carnegie Mellon CLASS
OF 2026.
>> [cheering]
[applause]
>> THANK YOU FOR THIS extraordinary honor.
It is deeply meaningful to be here with
Carnegie Mellon,
one of the world's great universities,
and one of the rare places
that invents the future.
Today is a day of pride and joy,
a dream come true for you.
But not only for you.
Your families, teachers, mentors, and
friends
helped carry you here.
Before we talk about the future,
thank them.
This day belongs to them, too.
Graduates,
please stand up. Stand with me.
Come on, you guys.
Especially,
turn to your mothers and wish them a
happy Mother's Day.
>> [applause]
>> For you,
this is another step
in your life. But for her,
this is a dream come true.
Please sit down.
CMU students, like robots, take
instructions one at a time.
To see your graduate, to see you
>> [clears throat]
>> Okay, everybody, focus.
I have something important to tell you.
To see you graduate from one of the
world's great institutions, this is her
moment, too.
My mom and dad are deeply proud of me,
as well.
My journey
is their journey.
I am their dream come true.
And their dream
was the American dream.
Like many in this audience, I'm a
first-generation immigrant.
>> [cheering]
[applause]
>> My father had a dream to raise his
family in America.
When I was 9 years old, he sent my older
brother and me to the United States.
We ended up at a Baptist boarding school
in Oneida, Kentucky.
Coal country.
A town of a few hundred people.
Two years later, my parents left
everything behind to join us.
They came with little to nothing.
My father was a chemical engineer.
My mother worked as a maid at a Catholic
school.
She woke me up at 4:00 a.m. in the
morning to deliver newspapers.
My older brother got me a job as a
dishwasher at Denny's.
Which, at the time, felt like a major
career advancement.
That was my view of America.
Not easy,
but full of opportunities.
Not a guarantee,
but a chance.
My parents came here because they
believed America could give their
children a chance.
How can we not be romantic about
America?
I went to Oregon State University.
I met my wife, Lori, when I was 17 years
old. I was the youngest school youngest
kid in school.
We were sophomore lab partners.
She was 19.
>> [laughter]
>> An older woman.
>> [cheering]
>> I beat out 250 other boys in class and
won her heart.
>> [applause]
>> We've now been married for 40 years.
>> We have two
two amazing children, both working at
Nvidia.
When I was 30, I started a video with
Chris Malachowsky and Curtis Priem, two
amazing computer scientists. We wanted
to build a new kind of computer, one
that could solve problems ordinary
computers could not.
We had absolutely no idea how to build a
company,
raise money, or run Nvidia.
I just thought,
"How hard could it be?"
It turns out it is super hard.
>> [laughter]
>> Our first technology didn't even work.
We ran out of we nearly ran out of
money.
At one point, I had to fly to Japan and
explain to Sega's CEO
that the technology they contracted us
to build would not work.
Asked to be released from a contract we
could not complete.
And then asked
that they still pay us.
Without the money, Nvidia would
vaporize.
It was embarrassing,
humiliating,
and one of the hardest things I have
ever done.
And Sega's CEO, Hayao Nakayama,
said yes.
I learned early that being CEO is not
about power,
but the responsibility
that comes with keeping the company
alive.
And that honesty and humility
can be met with generosity and kindness,
even in business.
We used the money to reset the company.
And out of desperation, we invented new
ways of designing chips and computers
that we still use today.
For 33 years, Nvidia had reinvented
itself over and over again, each time
asking,
"How hard can it be?"
And each time learning,
"It's harder than we thought."
But through those experiences, we learn
never to see failure as the opposite of
success.
Each failure is just another learning
moment, a humility moment,
a character-strengthening moment. The
resilience forged through setbacks
is what gives you the strength to go
again.
Today,
I am one of the longest-serving
CEOs in technology.
>> [applause]
>> Nvidia,
the body of work I share with 45,000
extraordinary colleagues,
is my life's work.
Now, it's your time to realize your
dreams.
And the timing could not be more
perfect.
My career started at the beginning of
the PC revolution.
Your career
starts at the beginning of the AI
revolution.
I cannot imagine a more exciting time to
work, to begin your life's work.
AI started right here at Carnegie
Mellon.
>> [cheering and applause]
>> I've heard countless AI jokes in the
last 24 hours here at Carnegie
[laughter] Mellon.
Carnegie Carnegie Mellon is one of the
true birthplaces
of artificial intelligence and robotics.
In the 1950s, researchers here created
the logic theorist, widely recognized
and considered the first AI computer
program.
In 1979,
Carnegie Mellon founded the Robotics
Institute.
This morning I visited
>> [cheering]
>> This morning I visited with Robo Club.
The first academic institute devoted
entirely to robotics. Artificial
intelligence has gone on now
to reinvent computing completely.
I have lived through every major
computing platform shift.
Mainframes, PCs, the internet, mobile,
and cloud.
Each wave
built on the one before.
Each
expanded access, each transformed
industries and society, but what is
about to happen now is bigger
than anything before.
Computing is undergoing a complete
reset.
Not since modern computing was first
invented.
For 60 years,
computing worked the same way.
Humans wrote software,
computers executed instructions.
That paradigm is over.
Artificial intelligence
has reinvented computing. From human
coding to machine learning.
From software running on CPUs to neural
networks running on GPUs.
And from following instructions
to understanding,
reasoning, planning, and using tools.
A new industry has emerged
to manufacture intelligence at scale.
Because intelligence is
foundational to every industry
every industry will change.
For many
AI creates uncertainty.
People see AI writing software,
generating images, driving cars
and naturally wonder
what happens next.
Will jobs disappear?
Will people be left behind?
Will this technology become too
powerful?
Every major technological revolution in
history
created fear alongside opportunity.
When society engages technology openly
responsibly and optimistically
we expand human potential
far more than we diminish it.
So first and above all
we must be clear-eyed.
Artificial intelligence
the automation of understanding,
reasoning and problem-solving
is one of the most powerful technologies
humanity has ever created.
And like every transformative technology
before it
it will bring both great promise and
real risks.
The responsibility of our generation
is not only to advance AI
but to advance it wisely.
Scientists and engineers have a profound
responsibility to advance AI
capabilities and AI safety
together.
Policy makers
>> [applause]
[applause]
>> Policy makers have a responsibility to
create thoughtful guardrails that
protect society while still allowing
innovation,
discovery, and progress to move forward.
History shows
that societies that retreat from
technology
do not stop progress.
They only surrender
the opportunity to shape it
and to benefit from it.
So, the answer is not to fear the
future.
The answer is to guide it wisely, build
it responsibly, and ensure that it
benefits reach as many people as
possible.
We should not teach fear of the future.
We should engage it with optimism,
responsibility, and ambition.
Only a fraction of the people in the
world know how to write software.
Now,
anyone can ask AI to build something
useful.
A shopkeeper can create a website and
grow a business.
A carpenter can design a kitchen
and offer new services to clients.
The AI writes the code.
Everyone is now a programmer.
For the first time, the power of
computing and intelligence can truly
reach everyone and close the technology
divide. The first time.
And like electricity and the internet
before it,
AI
will require trillions of dollars of
infrastructure investment.
This is the largest technology
infrastructure buildout in human
history.
And a once-in-a-generation opportunity
to reindustrialize America and restore
the nation's capacity to build.
To support AI, America will build chip
factories, computer factories, data
centers, and advanced manufacturing
facilities across the country.
AI gives America
the opportunity to build again.
Electricians, plumbers, ironworkers,
technicians, builders,
this is your time.
AI is not just creating a new computing
industry, it is creating a new
industrial era.
Powering this new infrastructure
will require enormous amounts of energy.
But it is also
driving one of the largest investments
in energy infrastructure in generations.
Modernizing the grid, expanding power
generation,
and accelerating
sustainable energy.
And yes,
AI will change every job.
But the task and the purpose of a job
are not the same.
Many tasks will be automated. Some jobs
will disappear.
But many new jobs and entire new
industries will be created.
Software coding tasks are increasingly
automated, but using AI, software
engineers can expand the search of per
solutions,
allowing them to tackle far more
ambitious challenges.
Analyzing radiology scans is
increasingly automated.
But using AI, radiologists are elevated
to better diagnose disease and care for
patients.
AI does not replace human purpose.
It amplifies human capability.
That is why even as AI writes more code
and analyze more scans,
demand for software engineers and
radiologists continue to grow.
AI
is not likely to replace you.
But someone using AI better than you
might.
So a good thought experiment is this.
Do we want our children
to be supercharged by AI
or
be left behind
by those who are?
No parent wants their chill their child
left behind.
So let us build AI safely.
Let us also imagine an optimistic
future. One our children are excited to
be part of inspired to help build.
So we can and must
do four things at once.
Advance safely.
Create thoughtful policies.
Make AI broadly accessible.
And encourage everyone to engage.
Everyone should have AI.
Opportunity should not belong only to
the people who can code.
Class of 2026,
you are entering the world at an
extraordinary moment.
A new industry is being born.
A new era of science and discovery is
beginning.
AI is excel will accelerate the
expansion of human knowledge and help
solve problems once beyond our reach.
We have the opportunity to close the
technology divide
and bring the power of computing and
intelligence to billions of people for
the very first time.
To reindustrialize America and restore
our capacity to build.
And to help create a future more
abundant, more capable, and more hopeful
than the world you inherited.
No generation
has entered the world with more powerful
tools
or
greater opportunities than you.
We are all standing at the same starting
line.
This is your moment to help shape what
comes next.
So run, don't walk.
Carnegie Mellon
has a motto I love.
My heart is in the work.
>> [cheering]
[applause]
>> So put your heart in the work.
Build something worthy of your
education, your potential,
and the people who believed in you
long before the world did.
Congratulations, Carnegie Mellon class
of 2026.
>> [cheering]
[applause]